# Dataproject

In our data analysis project, we work with two data sets from the OECD database: Average wages and total greenhouse gas emissions for OECD countries. We find that there is no clear common trend of the two variables for all OECD countries. While wages rise on average between 2010 and 2016, overall greenhouse gas emissions are subject to strong fluctuation. Aditionally, we find that there are large differences in avereage wage levels of OECD countries and that the United States are by far the largest contributor to overall greenhouse gas emissions of the OECD countries. 

Our prokect is structured as follows: After structuring and cleaning each data set individually, we merge them into one, in order to start the analysis. We then create new variables, by calculating various statistical measures: The mean of the percentage change of emissions from one year to the next for each country, the overall change in emissions as well as wages for all OECD countries. Next, we define two functions, which we use later on: the information funtion, which gives average wages and total emissions for any OECD country, and the translate function, which translates country codes into the corresponding country names. In the visual analysis, we plot the mean of average wages and emissions for each country over all years, as well as their percentage change from year to year for all OECD countries. The project concludes with an interactive model, which returns the previously plotted statistical measures for any OECD country.